# AucklandMap
University Assignment for Algorithms and Data Structures. Created a map of Auckland

###To run this program, please compile and run the *AucklandMap.java* file 

<h1>The Brief</h1>
The Assigment Requires you to build a program that will read a collection of files con- taining information about the roads in the Auckland region, display the information visually, and let the user view and search the data in several ways. The program will need several large data structures, and the key challenge of the assignment is to implement those data structures.

#Requirements for Assignment 1
Your program should:
<li> Read road data from the files described below and construct an appropriate data structure to store all the information about the roads, road segments, and intersections. A road segments is a part of a road that connects two intersections. A road consists of a sequence of road segments. Intersections are either places where two roads meet, or the end of a road. The data structure must include a graph of the intersections (nodes) and road segments (edges), but it will also need to store information about the roads.</li>
<li>Display the road data visually by drawing lines for all the roads segments. Each road segment should be drawn as a sequence of straight lines (the points along the road are specified in the data files). The program must allow the user to either view the whole of the Auckland region, or zoom in on a smaller region. At the minimum, the program should have two views - the whole region and Auckland central. Ideally, the user should be able to zoom and pan to arbitrary views of the data.</li>
<li> Allow the user to enter the name of a road in a text box, and then highlight the road (all its road segments). As the user types into the text box, the program should show up to 10 possible completions of the name, based on the letters typed so far. To do this, the program should store all the road names in a trie structure which will act as a searchable index into the collection of road objects.</li>
<li>Allow the user to click on the visual display of the roads, and then highlight and display in- formation about the closest intersection. The information should include the location of the intersection and all the roads that go through the intersection. Ideally, the program should do this e ciently by storing the intersections in a quad-tree structure that indexes the collection of intersections.
The provided marking guide describes what you need to do for the minimum, core, completion, and challenge, as does this document.</li>

## The data consists of three kinds of objects we care about:
<li><b>Nodes</b> are locations where roads end, join, or intersect.The node data can be found in the nodeID-lat-lon.tab file: a tab separated text file with one line for each node, specifying the ID of the node, and the
latitude and longitude of the node. Note that latitude and longitude are specified in degrees,
not distances. One degree of latitude corresponds to 111.0 kilometers. One degree of longitude
varies, depending on the latitude, but we assume that in Auckland, one degree of longitude is 88.649 kilometers. This means that when you are computing distances between two points, you must scale the latitude di erence by 111.0 and scale the longitude di erence by 88.649.
<li><b>Road Segments</b> are a part of a road between two intersections (nodes). The only intersections on a road segment are at its ends. The data includes the length of each segment. The road segment data is in the roadSeg-roadID-length-nodeID-nodeID-coords.tab file: a tab separated text file with one line for each road segment, specifying the ID of the road object this segment be- longs to, the length of the segment and the ID’s of the nodes at each end of the segment, followed by the coordinates of the road segment for drawing it. The first line of the file specifies the fields in each line. The coordinates are given as a sequence of latitude and longitude coordinates of points along the centerline of the road segment. The coordinates consist of an even number of floating point numbers, and there are always at least two pairs of numbers (for each end of the road segment); some segments have a lot more coordinates.
<li><b>Roads</b> are a sequences of segments, with a name and other properties. These need not be an entire road - a real road that has di erent properties for some parts will be represented in the data by several road objects, all with the same name. A very important property of roads is whether they are one-way or not. The road data is in the roadID-roadInfo.tab file, with one line for each road object. The first value on the line is the roadID. The columns are specified at the top of the file. The meaning of the numeric columns is specified in the README.txt file.
